{
    "title": "leadership - vit-ap",
    "link": "https://vitap.ac.in/leadership/",
    "content": "   Dr. G. Viswanathan\n Founder & Chancellor, VIT\n Dr. G. Viswanathan,\u00a0the founder-chancellor of VIT University, was born on December 8, 1938 in a remote village near Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Dr. GV\u2019s life is a source of inspiration to modern-day youth.Dr. GV \u2212 the StudentDr. GV completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School in 2003, nearly four decades after his University education, reaffirming his urge to be an eternal student. He excelled in academics right through childhood. His early education was confined to his small village where he studied in his mother tongue, Tamil. His pre-university education at Voorhees College, Vellore, initiated him to the world outside. From there he went on to obtain his Bachelor\u2019s and Master\u2019s Degrees in Economics from the prestigious Loyola College, Chennai. Following this, he graduated in Law from the Madras Law College.\nDr. GV \u2212 the Leader of the peopleA student leader in his twenties, entering Indian parliament was something unthinkable, especially in 1960s. He championed people\u2019s issues in the parliament and they in turn reposed faith in the leader who fulfilled their expectations. They re-elected him by a bigger margin in the next election for another five-year term. He travelled to different parts of the world as a member of parliamentary delegations and appreciated issues in a global perspective. Dr. GV wanted to play a bigger role in provincial politics so that he can make a direct contribution in bettering the lives of the people in the region. He was elected to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for ten years. During this period, he served as a Minister for two years.\nDr. GV \u2212 the EducatorDr.GV founded Vellore Engineering College in 1984 at Vellore. He envisaged that this institution would offer world-class education to students who would in turn create an indelible impact on society. The engineering college that started with an intake of 180 students in 1984 has evolved into an university with two campuses. Over 25,000 students are enrolled in 53 undergraduate and graduate programmes with nearly 16,000 residing on campus. It attracts students and professors from different parts of the world. It houses more than 1000 international students on campus. For the past two years, VIT University has been ranked #1 private engineering institution in India. ISO Certification from Holland, International accreditation from the United Kingdom and the USA, and the highest accreditation grade from the Government of India reflect the University\u2019s penchant for excellence on all fronts.\nDr. GV \u2212 the InstitutionDr. GV\u2019s passion for societal development and compassion for the underprivileged has resulted in the introduction of several schemes for uplifting the women and unemployed youth in the region to help them become self-reliant. Dr. GV offers scholarships to students from disadvantaged sections of the society to enable them to pursue higher studies. Dr. GV has established the Universal Higher Education Trust to create opportunities for higher education to every deserving student in the region. He has adopted several villages in an effort to improve the quality of lives of the rural people. His vision of transforming Vellore into a greener and cooler town by planting one million saplings has begun to yield fruit. Dr. GV\u2019s farsightedness extends beyond horizons.\n \n\"Chancellor Viswanathan is an institution by himself\"\n \nContact:\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\nChancellor,\nVIT University,\nVellore, Tamil Nadu (632014)\nIndia Email: chancellor@vit.ac.in\n Read More \n\n Dr. G. Viswanathan\n Founder & Chancellor, VIT\n Dr. G. Viswanathan,\u00a0the founder-chancellor of VIT University, was born on December 8, 1938 in a remote village near Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Dr. GV\u2019s life is a source of inspiration to modern-day youth.Dr. GV \u2212 the StudentDr. GV completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School in 2003, nearly four decades after his University education, reaffirming his urge to be an eternal student. He excelled in academics right through childhood. His early education was confined to his small village where he studied in his mother tongue, Tamil. His pre-university education at Voorhees College, Vellore, initiated him to the world outside. From there he went on to obtain his Bachelor\u2019s and Master\u2019s Degrees in Economics from the prestigious Loyola College, Chennai. Following this, he graduated in Law from the Madras Law College.\nDr. GV \u2212 the Leader of the peopleA student leader in his twenties, entering Indian parliament was something unthinkable, especially in 1960s. He championed people\u2019s issues in the parliament and they in turn reposed faith in the leader who fulfilled their expectations. They re-elected him by a bigger margin in the next election for another five-year term. He travelled to different parts of the world as a member of parliamentary delegations and appreciated issues in a global perspective. Dr. GV wanted to play a bigger role in provincial politics so that he can make a direct contribution in bettering the lives of the people in the region. He was elected to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for ten years. During this period, he served as a Minister for two years.\nDr. GV \u2212 the EducatorDr.GV founded Vellore Engineering College in 1984 at Vellore. He envisaged that this institution would offer world-class education to students who would in turn create an indelible impact on society. The engineering college that started with an intake of 180 students in 1984 has evolved into an university with two campuses. Over 25,000 students are enrolled in 53 undergraduate and graduate programmes with nearly 16,000 residing on campus. It attracts students and professors from different parts of the world. It houses more than 1000 international students on campus. For the past two years, VIT University has been ranked #1 private engineering institution in India. ISO Certification from Holland, International accreditation from the United Kingdom and the USA, and the highest accreditation grade from the Government of India reflect the University\u2019s penchant for excellence on all fronts.\nDr. GV \u2212 the InstitutionDr. GV\u2019s passion for societal development and compassion for the underprivileged has resulted in the introduction of several schemes for uplifting the women and unemployed youth in the region to help them become self-reliant. Dr. GV offers scholarships to students from disadvantaged sections of the society to enable them to pursue higher studies. Dr. GV has established the Universal Higher Education Trust to create opportunities for higher education to every deserving student in the region. He has adopted several villages in an effort to improve the quality of lives of the rural people. His vision of transforming Vellore into a greener and cooler town by planting one million saplings has begun to yield fruit. Dr. GV\u2019s farsightedness extends beyond horizons.\n \n\"Chancellor Viswanathan is an institution by himself\"\n \nContact:\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\nChancellor,\nVIT University,\nVellore, Tamil Nadu (632014)\nIndia Email: chancellor@vit.ac.in\n Read More \n\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\u00a0the founder-chancellor of VIT University, was born on December 8, 1938 in a remote village near Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Dr. GV\u2019s life is a source of inspiration to modern-day youth.Dr. GV \u2212 the StudentDr. GV completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School in 2003, nearly four decades after his University education, reaffirming his urge to be an eternal student. He excelled in academics right through childhood. His early education was confined to his small village where he studied in his mother tongue, Tamil. His pre-university education at Voorhees College, Vellore, initiated him to the world outside. From there he went on to obtain his Bachelor\u2019s and Master\u2019s Degrees in Economics from the prestigious Loyola College, Chennai. Following this, he graduated in Law from the Madras Law College.\nDr. GV \u2212 the Leader of the peopleA student leader in his twenties, entering Indian parliament was something unthinkable, especially in 1960s. He championed people\u2019s issues in the parliament and they in turn reposed faith in the leader who fulfilled their expectations. They re-elected him by a bigger margin in the next election for another five-year term. He travelled to different parts of the world as a member of parliamentary delegations and appreciated issues in a global perspective. Dr. GV wanted to play a bigger role in provincial politics so that he can make a direct contribution in bettering the lives of the people in the region. He was elected to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for ten years. During this period, he served as a Minister for two years.\nDr. GV \u2212 the EducatorDr.GV founded Vellore Engineering College in 1984 at Vellore. He envisaged that this institution would offer world-class education to students who would in turn create an indelible impact on society. The engineering college that started with an intake of 180 students in 1984 has evolved into an university with two campuses. Over 25,000 students are enrolled in 53 undergraduate and graduate programmes with nearly 16,000 residing on campus. It attracts students and professors from different parts of the world. It houses more than 1000 international students on campus. For the past two years, VIT University has been ranked #1 private engineering institution in India. ISO Certification from Holland, International accreditation from the United Kingdom and the USA, and the highest accreditation grade from the Government of India reflect the University\u2019s penchant for excellence on all fronts.\nDr. GV \u2212 the InstitutionDr. GV\u2019s passion for societal development and compassion for the underprivileged has resulted in the introduction of several schemes for uplifting the women and unemployed youth in the region to help them become self-reliant. Dr. GV offers scholarships to students from disadvantaged sections of the society to enable them to pursue higher studies. Dr. GV has established the Universal Higher Education Trust to create opportunities for higher education to every deserving student in the region. He has adopted several villages in an effort to improve the quality of lives of the rural people. His vision of transforming Vellore into a greener and cooler town by planting one million saplings has begun to yield fruit. Dr. GV\u2019s farsightedness extends beyond horizons.\n \n\"Chancellor Viswanathan is an institution by himself\"\n \nContact:\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\nChancellor,\nVIT University,\nVellore, Tamil Nadu (632014)\nIndia Email: chancellor@vit.ac.in\n\n\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\u00a0the founder-chancellor of VIT University, was born on December 8, 1938 in a remote village near Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Dr. GV\u2019s life is a source of inspiration to modern-day youth.\n\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the StudentDr. GV completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School in 2003, nearly four decades after his University education, reaffirming his urge to be an eternal student. He excelled in academics right through childhood. His early education was confined to his small village where he studied in his mother tongue, Tamil. His pre-university education at Voorhees College, Vellore, initiated him to the world outside. From there he went on to obtain his Bachelor\u2019s and Master\u2019s Degrees in Economics from the prestigious Loyola College, Chennai. Following this, he graduated in Law from the Madras Law College.\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the Student\n\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the Leader of the peopleA student leader in his twenties, entering Indian parliament was something unthinkable, especially in 1960s. He championed people\u2019s issues in the parliament and they in turn reposed faith in the leader who fulfilled their expectations. They re-elected him by a bigger margin in the next election for another five-year term. He travelled to different parts of the world as a member of parliamentary delegations and appreciated issues in a global perspective. Dr. GV wanted to play a bigger role in provincial politics so that he can make a direct contribution in bettering the lives of the people in the region. He was elected to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for ten years. During this period, he served as a Minister for two years.\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the Leader of the people\n\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the EducatorDr.GV founded Vellore Engineering College in 1984 at Vellore. He envisaged that this institution would offer world-class education to students who would in turn create an indelible impact on society. The engineering college that started with an intake of 180 students in 1984 has evolved into an university with two campuses. Over 25,000 students are enrolled in 53 undergraduate and graduate programmes with nearly 16,000 residing on campus. It attracts students and professors from different parts of the world. It houses more than 1000 international students on campus. For the past two years, VIT University has been ranked #1 private engineering institution in India. ISO Certification from Holland, International accreditation from the United Kingdom and the USA, and the highest accreditation grade from the Government of India reflect the University\u2019s penchant for excellence on all fronts.\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the Educator\n\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the InstitutionDr. GV\u2019s passion for societal development and compassion for the underprivileged has resulted in the introduction of several schemes for uplifting the women and unemployed youth in the region to help them become self-reliant. Dr. GV offers scholarships to students from disadvantaged sections of the society to enable them to pursue higher studies. Dr. GV has established the Universal Higher Education Trust to create opportunities for higher education to every deserving student in the region. He has adopted several villages in an effort to improve the quality of lives of the rural people. His vision of transforming Vellore into a greener and cooler town by planting one million saplings has begun to yield fruit. Dr. GV\u2019s farsightedness extends beyond horizons.\n \n\"Chancellor Viswanathan is an institution by himself\"\n\n\nDr. GV \u2212 the Institution\n\nContact:\nDr. G. Viswanathan,\nChancellor,\nVIT University,\nVellore, Tamil Nadu (632014)\nIndia Email: chancellor@vit.ac.in\n\n\n Read More \n\n   Sankar Viswanathan\n Vice President, Vellore Campus\n \u00a0 As a proactive person, Sankar Viswanathan, has always evinced a keen involvement with the VIT family. He is an active member of the Board of Management, VIT and displays a keen interest in the affairs of the college and being a student-friendly person, is avidly interested in the academic progress of the students and staff. He completed his Advanced Diploma in Engineering Technology, at Chisholm Institute, Melbourne, Australia. He has held honoured positions as the Chairman, and Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College, Vellore before taking over charge as the Pro-Chancellor (Academic) at VIT. He has also served as the Secretary of the North Arcot Educational & Charitable Trust of Vellore. He has travelled extensively and gained valuable experience from his tours to USA, Australia, Singapore, Italy, China, Greece, Malaysia, Jordan, Oman, Lebanon, Syria and Rwanda. He is an active member of the Australian engineers Association in Melbourne. His hobbies include playing tennis, cricket, cooking and surfing the net.\n Read More \n\n Sankar Viswanathan\n Vice President, Vellore Campus\n \u00a0 As a proactive person, Sankar Viswanathan, has always evinced a keen involvement with the VIT family. He is an active member of the Board of Management, VIT and displays a keen interest in the affairs of the college and being a student-friendly person, is avidly interested in the academic progress of the students and staff. He completed his Advanced Diploma in Engineering Technology, at Chisholm Institute, Melbourne, Australia. He has held honoured positions as the Chairman, and Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College, Vellore before taking over charge as the Pro-Chancellor (Academic) at VIT. He has also served as the Secretary of the North Arcot Educational & Charitable Trust of Vellore. He has travelled extensively and gained valuable experience from his tours to USA, Australia, Singapore, Italy, China, Greece, Malaysia, Jordan, Oman, Lebanon, Syria and Rwanda. He is an active member of the Australian engineers Association in Melbourne. His hobbies include playing tennis, cricket, cooking and surfing the net.\n Read More \n\n\u00a0 As a proactive person, Sankar Viswanathan, has always evinced a keen involvement with the VIT family. He is an active member of the Board of Management, VIT and displays a keen interest in the affairs of the college and being a student-friendly person, is avidly interested in the academic progress of the students and staff. He completed his Advanced Diploma in Engineering Technology, at Chisholm Institute, Melbourne, Australia. He has held honoured positions as the Chairman, and Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College, Vellore before taking over charge as the Pro-Chancellor (Academic) at VIT. He has also served as the Secretary of the North Arcot Educational & Charitable Trust of Vellore. He has travelled extensively and gained valuable experience from his tours to USA, Australia, Singapore, Italy, China, Greece, Malaysia, Jordan, Oman, Lebanon, Syria and Rwanda. He is an active member of the Australian engineers Association in Melbourne. His hobbies include playing tennis, cricket, cooking and surfing the net.\n\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n\u00a0\n\n Read More \n\n   Dr. Sekar Viswanathan\n Vice President, Chennai Campus\n Dr. Sekar Viswanathan epitomises the vision, vibrant spirit and energy that has helped in establishing VIT as a premiere institute in the country. Dr. Sekar has over 26 years of experience in the industry and academics. He\u00a0is a rank holder in Electronics and Communication Engineering from University of Madras. He received his Master\u2019s degree in Computer Science from Rochester Institute of Technology, USA. He has a Ph.D. in the area of faculty motivation from University of Madras.During the 90s, he served as the Vice-Chairman of his alma mater, Vellore Engineering College (which was later renamed as VIT). During this period, he introduced a number of new programmes and initiatives which paved way for the university status of VIT. Later, Dr. Sekar went to USA and worked at IBM, NetClerk and Walmart.com to gain international industrial experience. Walmart.com conferred the \"Best Engineering Manager\" and \u201cBest Achiever\u201d awards on him. As VP at VIT, Dr. Sekar focuses on the university growth strategy, academic policies, international relations and placements. He has brought in numerous improvements to benefit the students including STARS (Support the Advancement of Rural Students) scheme, Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS), Semester Abroad Programme and Curriculum for Applied Learning (CAL).\nDr. Sekar was bestowed the prestigious Young EDGE National Award in 2012 in recognition of his innovative and useful contributions to the field of education.\u00a0\n Read More \n\n Dr. Sekar Viswanathan\n Vice President, Chennai Campus\n Dr. Sekar Viswanathan epitomises the vision, vibrant spirit and energy that has helped in establishing VIT as a premiere institute in the country. Dr. Sekar has over 26 years of experience in the industry and academics. He\u00a0is a rank holder in Electronics and Communication Engineering from University of Madras. He received his Master\u2019s degree in Computer Science from Rochester Institute of Technology, USA. He has a Ph.D. in the area of faculty motivation from University of Madras.During the 90s, he served as the Vice-Chairman of his alma mater, Vellore Engineering College (which was later renamed as VIT). During this period, he introduced a number of new programmes and initiatives which paved way for the university status of VIT. Later, Dr. Sekar went to USA and worked at IBM, NetClerk and Walmart.com to gain international industrial experience. Walmart.com conferred the \"Best Engineering Manager\" and \u201cBest Achiever\u201d awards on him. As VP at VIT, Dr. Sekar focuses on the university growth strategy, academic policies, international relations and placements. He has brought in numerous improvements to benefit the students including STARS (Support the Advancement of Rural Students) scheme, Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS), Semester Abroad Programme and Curriculum for Applied Learning (CAL).\nDr. Sekar was bestowed the prestigious Young EDGE National Award in 2012 in recognition of his innovative and useful contributions to the field of education.\u00a0\n Read More \n\nDr. Sekar Viswanathan epitomises the vision, vibrant spirit and energy that has helped in establishing VIT as a premiere institute in the country. Dr. Sekar has over 26 years of experience in the industry and academics. He\u00a0is a rank holder in Electronics and Communication Engineering from University of Madras. He received his Master\u2019s degree in Computer Science from Rochester Institute of Technology, USA. He has a Ph.D. in the area of faculty motivation from University of Madras.During the 90s, he served as the Vice-Chairman of his alma mater, Vellore Engineering College (which was later renamed as VIT). During this period, he introduced a number of new programmes and initiatives which paved way for the university status of VIT. Later, Dr. Sekar went to USA and worked at IBM, NetClerk and Walmart.com to gain international industrial experience. Walmart.com conferred the \"Best Engineering Manager\" and \u201cBest Achiever\u201d awards on him. As VP at VIT, Dr. Sekar focuses on the university growth strategy, academic policies, international relations and placements. He has brought in numerous improvements to benefit the students including STARS (Support the Advancement of Rural Students) scheme, Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS), Semester Abroad Programme and Curriculum for Applied Learning (CAL).\nDr. Sekar was bestowed the prestigious Young EDGE National Award in 2012 in recognition of his innovative and useful contributions to the field of education.\u00a0\n\n\nDr. Sekar Viswanathan epitomises the vision, vibrant spirit and energy that has helped in establishing VIT as a premiere institute in the country. Dr. Sekar has over 26 years of experience in the industry and academics. He\u00a0is a rank holder in Electronics and Communication Engineering from University of Madras. He received his Master\u2019s degree in Computer Science from Rochester Institute of Technology, USA. He has a Ph.D. in the area of faculty motivation from University of Madras.\n\nDuring the 90s, he served as the Vice-Chairman of his alma mater, Vellore Engineering College (which was later renamed as VIT). During this period, he introduced a number of new programmes and initiatives which paved way for the university status of VIT. Later, Dr. Sekar went to USA and worked at IBM, NetClerk and Walmart.com to gain international industrial experience. Walmart.com conferred the \"Best Engineering Manager\" and \u201cBest Achiever\u201d awards on him. As VP at VIT, Dr. Sekar focuses on the university growth strategy, academic policies, international relations and placements. He has brought in numerous improvements to benefit the students including STARS (Support the Advancement of Rural Students) scheme, Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS), Semester Abroad Programme and Curriculum for Applied Learning (CAL).\nDr. Sekar was bestowed the prestigious Young EDGE National Award in 2012 in recognition of his innovative and useful contributions to the field of education.\n\n Read More \n\n   G. V. Selvam\n Vice President, AP Campus\n A man of few words, Mr.Selvam believes in and lives by the precept, \u2018Actions speak louder than words.\u2019 Mr. G V Selvam has been associated with the institution since 1999, when he first assumed office as Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College. Since then, he has been working relentlessly towards the progress of the institution. He spearheaded the elevation of Vellore Engineering College to VIT University in 2001, and became its first Pro-Chancellor. Mr. Selvam enjoys the distinction of being the youngest Pro-Chancellor of a University in the world, which has been recognized by the Limca Book of Records, 2005. He holds a postgraduate degree in Business Administration from University of Madras. Mr. Selvam became the first Vice-President of VIT Chennai in 2010, where he sculptured the campus from the scratch. The high rise structures, the lush green ambience and the ultra-modern infrastructure that adorn VIT Chennai were created within a short span of time under his able leadership. He has developed VIT Chennai campus in conformity with the standards of the Green LEED certification. He returned to VIT Vellore in 2015 as the Vice President, and continues to contribute diligently to its growth. His painstaking efforts in implementing several innovative measures have enabled VIT to emerge as an institution of international eminence. A self-motivated and industrious person, and a farsighted educationalist, Mr. G.V. Selvam possesses an innate ability to spot and nurture talent\u2013be it with the faculty, staff or students. He offers flexible and pragmatic academic solutions not only for toppers but also for slow learners. Mr. Selvam was instrumental in introducing new and need-based programmes of study such as Law, Architecture, Hotel Management and Agriculture. He introduced the inter-university sports & cultural extravaganza, \u201cRiviera\u201d, which has blossomed into an acclaimed international event. He played a significant role in establishing the VIT Technology Business Incubator (VITTBI), which has received national acclaim for its service to budding entrepreneurs. The Centre for Sustainable Rural Development and Research Studies [CSRD&RS] is the brainchild of Mr. Selvam. The centre is working towards providing urban facilities in rural areas to enhance the living conditions in villages, which would develop the rural folk on par with the urban people in terms of education and employability. A man with a deep passion for nature, Mr. G V Selvam takes immense interest in green initiatives. The lush green, self-sustaining, VIT campuses in Vellore and Chennai are examples of his efforts to adorn the spaces with natural beauty. He is the brain behind the Green Vellore Project, which has added green cover to the rocky and barren landscape of Vellore, and the Clean Palar Project, which is taking measures to restore the Palar river bed to its original texture. He is passionate about transforming Vellore into a clean, green and nature-rich city. Mr. Selvam is inspired and guided by Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam\u2019s principle: \u201cA leader must have vision and passion, and not be afraid of any problem. Instead, he should know how to defeat it. Most importantly, he must work with integrity.\u201d\n Read More \n\n G. V. Selvam\n Vice President, AP Campus\n A man of few words, Mr.Selvam believes in and lives by the precept, \u2018Actions speak louder than words.\u2019 Mr. G V Selvam has been associated with the institution since 1999, when he first assumed office as Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College. Since then, he has been working relentlessly towards the progress of the institution. He spearheaded the elevation of Vellore Engineering College to VIT University in 2001, and became its first Pro-Chancellor. Mr. Selvam enjoys the distinction of being the youngest Pro-Chancellor of a University in the world, which has been recognized by the Limca Book of Records, 2005. He holds a postgraduate degree in Business Administration from University of Madras. Mr. Selvam became the first Vice-President of VIT Chennai in 2010, where he sculptured the campus from the scratch. The high rise structures, the lush green ambience and the ultra-modern infrastructure that adorn VIT Chennai were created within a short span of time under his able leadership. He has developed VIT Chennai campus in conformity with the standards of the Green LEED certification. He returned to VIT Vellore in 2015 as the Vice President, and continues to contribute diligently to its growth. His painstaking efforts in implementing several innovative measures have enabled VIT to emerge as an institution of international eminence. A self-motivated and industrious person, and a farsighted educationalist, Mr. G.V. Selvam possesses an innate ability to spot and nurture talent\u2013be it with the faculty, staff or students. He offers flexible and pragmatic academic solutions not only for toppers but also for slow learners. Mr. Selvam was instrumental in introducing new and need-based programmes of study such as Law, Architecture, Hotel Management and Agriculture. He introduced the inter-university sports & cultural extravaganza, \u201cRiviera\u201d, which has blossomed into an acclaimed international event. He played a significant role in establishing the VIT Technology Business Incubator (VITTBI), which has received national acclaim for its service to budding entrepreneurs. The Centre for Sustainable Rural Development and Research Studies [CSRD&RS] is the brainchild of Mr. Selvam. The centre is working towards providing urban facilities in rural areas to enhance the living conditions in villages, which would develop the rural folk on par with the urban people in terms of education and employability. A man with a deep passion for nature, Mr. G V Selvam takes immense interest in green initiatives. The lush green, self-sustaining, VIT campuses in Vellore and Chennai are examples of his efforts to adorn the spaces with natural beauty. He is the brain behind the Green Vellore Project, which has added green cover to the rocky and barren landscape of Vellore, and the Clean Palar Project, which is taking measures to restore the Palar river bed to its original texture. He is passionate about transforming Vellore into a clean, green and nature-rich city. Mr. Selvam is inspired and guided by Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam\u2019s principle: \u201cA leader must have vision and passion, and not be afraid of any problem. Instead, he should know how to defeat it. Most importantly, he must work with integrity.\u201d\n Read More \n\nA man of few words, Mr.Selvam believes in and lives by the precept, \u2018Actions speak louder than words.\u2019 Mr. G V Selvam has been associated with the institution since 1999, when he first assumed office as Vice-Chairman of Vellore Engineering College. Since then, he has been working relentlessly towards the progress of the institution. He spearheaded the elevation of Vellore Engineering College to VIT University in 2001, and became its first Pro-Chancellor. Mr. Selvam enjoys the distinction of being the youngest Pro-Chancellor of a University in the world, which has been recognized by the Limca Book of Records, 2005. He holds a postgraduate degree in Business Administration from University of Madras. Mr. Selvam became the first Vice-President of VIT Chennai in 2010, where he sculptured the campus from the scratch. The high rise structures, the lush green ambience and the ultra-modern infrastructure that adorn VIT Chennai were created within a short span of time under his able leadership. He has developed VIT Chennai campus in conformity with the standards of the Green LEED certification. He returned to VIT Vellore in 2015 as the Vice President, and continues to contribute diligently to its growth. His painstaking efforts in implementing several innovative measures have enabled VIT to emerge as an institution of international eminence. A self-motivated and industrious person, and a farsighted educationalist, Mr. G.V. Selvam possesses an innate ability to spot and nurture talent\u2013be it with the faculty, staff or students. He offers flexible and pragmatic academic solutions not only for toppers but also for slow learners. Mr. Selvam was instrumental in introducing new and need-based programmes of study such as Law, Architecture, Hotel Management and Agriculture. He introduced the inter-university sports & cultural extravaganza, \u201cRiviera\u201d, which has blossomed into an acclaimed international event. He played a significant role in establishing the VIT Technology Business Incubator (VITTBI), which has received national acclaim for its service to budding entrepreneurs. The Centre for Sustainable Rural Development and Research Studies [CSRD&RS] is the brainchild of Mr. Selvam. The centre is working towards providing urban facilities in rural areas to enhance the living conditions in villages, which would develop the rural folk on par with the urban people in terms of education and employability. A man with a deep passion for nature, Mr. G V Selvam takes immense interest in green initiatives. The lush green, self-sustaining, VIT campuses in Vellore and Chennai are examples of his efforts to adorn the spaces with natural beauty. He is the brain behind the Green Vellore Project, which has added green cover to the rocky and barren landscape of Vellore, and the Clean Palar Project, which is taking measures to restore the Palar river bed to its original texture. He is passionate about transforming Vellore into a clean, green and nature-rich city. Mr. Selvam is inspired and guided by Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam\u2019s principle: \u201cA leader must have vision and passion, and not be afraid of any problem. Instead, he should know how to defeat it. Most importantly, he must work with integrity.\u201d\n\n\n Read More \n\n   Dr. D. Subhakar\n Vice Chancellor\n  Dr. D. Subhakar, as the Vice-chancellor of VIT-AP, has guided and contributed immensely to the creation of a scholarly and creative institution.\u00a0\u00a0Previously, Dr. Subhakar has worked as a Scientist in Central and State government institutions for about 15 years, before moving to the teaching profession at VIT University, Vellore. He served as a Division Leader of Energy, Dean of Academics and Director of Software Development Cell at VIT Vellore.  During his 10 year tenure at VIT, he implemented Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS) in academics and spearheaded a team of programmers who developed in-house campus management software for the University.\u00a0He holds a Bachelor\u2019s degree in Agricultural Engineering from TNAU Coimbatore, an M.Tech. in Energy Technology from Asian Institute of Technology (AIT), Bangkok, Thailand and a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. Read More \n\n Dr. D. Subhakar\n Vice Chancellor\n  Dr. D. Subhakar, as the Vice-chancellor of VIT-AP, has guided and contributed immensely to the creation of a scholarly and creative institution.\u00a0\u00a0Previously, Dr. Subhakar has worked as a Scientist in Central and State government institutions for about 15 years, before moving to the teaching profession at VIT University, Vellore. He served as a Division Leader of Energy, Dean of Academics and Director of Software Development Cell at VIT Vellore.  During his 10 year tenure at VIT, he implemented Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS) in academics and spearheaded a team of programmers who developed in-house campus management software for the University.\u00a0He holds a Bachelor\u2019s degree in Agricultural Engineering from TNAU Coimbatore, an M.Tech. in Energy Technology from Asian Institute of Technology (AIT), Bangkok, Thailand and a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. Read More \n\n Dr. D. Subhakar, as the Vice-chancellor of VIT-AP, has guided and contributed immensely to the creation of a scholarly and creative institution.\u00a0\u00a0Previously, Dr. Subhakar has worked as a Scientist in Central and State government institutions for about 15 years, before moving to the teaching profession at VIT University, Vellore. He served as a Division Leader of Energy, Dean of Academics and Director of Software Development Cell at VIT Vellore.  During his 10 year tenure at VIT, he implemented Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS) in academics and spearheaded a team of programmers who developed in-house campus management software for the University.\u00a0He holds a Bachelor\u2019s degree in Agricultural Engineering from TNAU Coimbatore, an M.Tech. in Energy Technology from Asian Institute of Technology (AIT), Bangkok, Thailand and a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.\n\n Dr. D. Subhakar, as the Vice-chancellor of VIT-AP, has guided and contributed immensely to the creation of a scholarly and creative institution.\u00a0\u00a0Previously, Dr. Subhakar has worked as a Scientist in Central and State government institutions for about 15 years, before moving to the teaching profession at VIT University, Vellore. He served as a Division Leader of Energy, Dean of Academics and Director of Software Development Cell at VIT Vellore.  During his 10 year tenure at VIT, he implemented Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS) in academics and spearheaded a team of programmers who developed in-house campus management software for the University.\u00a0He holds a Bachelor\u2019s degree in Agricultural Engineering from TNAU Coimbatore, an M.Tech. in Energy Technology from Asian Institute of Technology (AIT), Bangkok, Thailand and a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.\n\n Read More \n\n   Dr. C.L.V. Sivakumar\nRegistrar\n  Dr. CLV Sivakumar, with a perfect blend of passion and dedication, has been with the VIT group of institutions for several years. He has served in many administrative positions in VIT University including Convenor-University Students' Disciplinary Enquiry Committee, Chief Warden of University Men's Hostels, Dy. Director of University Hostels and University Special Officer. He holds a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Commerce; a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Law; a Master\u2019s in Personnel Management and a Master\u2019s in Law. Constitutional Law and Administrative Law are his areas of specialisation at the Master\u2019s level. He received his Ph.D. in the area of Election Laws and Election Crimes. He has been teaching for the past 20 years. He has published a number of Research papers in Journals of National and International repute in the areas of Law and Management. He has participated and presented research papers in 40 national and international Seminars and Conferences. Law and Public Policy are his areas of interest. Read More \n\n Dr. C.L.V. Sivakumar\nRegistrar\n  Dr. CLV Sivakumar, with a perfect blend of passion and dedication, has been with the VIT group of institutions for several years. He has served in many administrative positions in VIT University including Convenor-University Students' Disciplinary Enquiry Committee, Chief Warden of University Men's Hostels, Dy. Director of University Hostels and University Special Officer. He holds a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Commerce; a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Law; a Master\u2019s in Personnel Management and a Master\u2019s in Law. Constitutional Law and Administrative Law are his areas of specialisation at the Master\u2019s level. He received his Ph.D. in the area of Election Laws and Election Crimes. He has been teaching for the past 20 years. He has published a number of Research papers in Journals of National and International repute in the areas of Law and Management. He has participated and presented research papers in 40 national and international Seminars and Conferences. Law and Public Policy are his areas of interest. Read More \n\n Dr. CLV Sivakumar, with a perfect blend of passion and dedication, has been with the VIT group of institutions for several years. He has served in many administrative positions in VIT University including Convenor-University Students' Disciplinary Enquiry Committee, Chief Warden of University Men's Hostels, Dy. Director of University Hostels and University Special Officer. He holds a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Commerce; a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Law; a Master\u2019s in Personnel Management and a Master\u2019s in Law. Constitutional Law and Administrative Law are his areas of specialisation at the Master\u2019s level. He received his Ph.D. in the area of Election Laws and Election Crimes. He has been teaching for the past 20 years. He has published a number of Research papers in Journals of National and International repute in the areas of Law and Management. He has participated and presented research papers in 40 national and international Seminars and Conferences. Law and Public Policy are his areas of interest.\n\n Dr. CLV Sivakumar, with a perfect blend of passion and dedication, has been with the VIT group of institutions for several years. He has served in many administrative positions in VIT University including Convenor-University Students' Disciplinary Enquiry Committee, Chief Warden of University Men's Hostels, Dy. Director of University Hostels and University Special Officer. He holds a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Commerce; a Bachelor\u2019s Degree in Law; a Master\u2019s in Personnel Management and a Master\u2019s in Law. Constitutional Law and Administrative Law are his areas of specialisation at the Master\u2019s level. He received his Ph.D. in the area of Election Laws and Election Crimes. He has been teaching for the past 20 years. He has published a number of Research papers in Journals of National and International repute in the areas of Law and Management. He has participated and presented research papers in 40 national and international Seminars and Conferences. Law and Public Policy are his areas of interest.\n\n Read More \n\n"
}