{
    "title": "Dr. Benarji Chakka ",
    "link": "https://vitap.ac.in/law-faculty/#modal",
    "content": " Dr. Benarji Chakka  Dean and Professor of Law BAL, LL.B., LL.M., M.Phil., Ph.D.,  PG Certificate in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education PG Diploma in French and PG Diploma in IRPM and LW British Chevening Scholar 2015-16 Benarji Chakka graduated with BAL., LL.B., from Andhra University; LL.M from School of Oriental African Studies (SOAS) University of London; M. Phil., and Ph. D., in international law from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India. He also completed Postgraduate Certificate Course in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education and Postgraduate Diploma in French Language, Literature and Culture from National University of Ireland (NUI), Galway, Republic of Ireland. He was British Chevening Scholar at SOAS in 2015-16. He worked as Professor of Law at Alliance School of Law, Alliance University, Bangalore, Associate Professor of Law at Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad; Associate Professor of Law and Registrar at National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam (NLUJAA), Lecturer at School of Law, National University of Ireland (NUI), Galway and worked as Legal Adviser to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Regional Delegation for South Asia, New Delhi, India and also worked as Research Associate at the Indian Society of International Law (ISIL). He published three books in the field of international humanitarian law and international aviation and space law and several research articles in the reputed journals. He presented research papers in national and international conference and workshop; he has been invited by various Law schools and Universities in India to deliver Lectures; he was also invited by UGC Academic Staff colleges in India to deliver lecturers in the UGC Refresher and Orientation Programmes. He is associated as a judge with Philipp Jessup Moot Court Competition; Manfred Lachs International Space Law Moot Court Competition for Asia-Pacific Round; Stetson International Environmental Law Moot Court Competitions; Henry Dunant Memorial Moot Court Competition in India and South Asia Region; Price Media Law Moot Programme organised by University of Oxford. He participated as Researcher at the Centre for Studies and Research in International Law and International Relations in 2015 at The Hague Academy of International Law and recipient of The Doctoral Scholarship awarded by The Hague Academy of International Law.Areas of Research Interest Public International Law International Aviation and Space Law International Humanitarian Law, Human Rights Law and International Criminal Law Transnational Organized Crime and Money International Criminal Tribunals Human Rights and Business Law, Development and Globalization Colonialism and International Law Transitional Justice   "
}